
The first level master includes −

Customer Master
Material Master
Pricing Conditions

While, the second level master is −

Output condition

Create a Customer Master Record
The customer master data contains the information about business transaction and how transactions are recorded and executed by the system. A Master contains the information about the customers that an organization uses to do business with them.
Key tables in Customer Master


Table Name
Key
Description


KNA1
KUNNR
General Information


KNB1
KUNNR,BUKRS
Company Code


KNVV
VKOGRG,VTWEG,SPART,KUNNR
Sales Area


KNBK
KUNNR,BANKS,BANKL,BANKN
Bank Data


VCNUM
CCINS,CCNUM
Credit Card


VCKUN
CCINS,CCNUM,KUNNR
Credit Card Assignment


KNVK
PARNR
Contact Person


KNVP
VKORG,VTWEG,SPART,PARVW,KUNNR
Partner Functions


Main Transaction Codes in a Customer Master


S.No
Transaction Codes &amp; Description


1

XD01, XD02, XD03
Used to create/change/display customer centrally



2

VD01,VD02,VD03
Used to create/change/display customer sales area



3

FD01,FD02,FD03
Used to create/change/display customer company code



4

XD04
Display change documents



5

XD05
Used to block Customer − Global, order, delivery, billing, sales area, etc.



6

XD06
Used for deletion



7

XD07
Change Account Group



8

VAP1
Create Contact Person



Creating a Customer Master Data
To create a customer master data, you need to use an Account group.
T-Code: XD01/VD01/FD01
Note that if you use −

XD01 − This Includes sales area in the customer master and data is stored in tables KNA1, KNB1 and KNVV.
VD01 − This includes sales area &amp; data, which will be stored in tables KNA1, KNB1 and KNVV and there is no company code data in this.
FD01 − This is company code level &amp; data is stored in tables KNA1 and KNB1.


Then a new window will open. Enter the following details −

Select the Account Group from the list.
Enter the customer number and select the company code.

Then you can enter the Sales Area details like −

Sales Organization
Distribution Channel
Division

In case you want to take reference from an existing customer to create customer master, you can use the reference option.
Once all the details are selected, click the Tick mark.

A new window will open to enter the customer master data. This customer master data has 3 key sections −

General Data like Title, Name, Address, etc.
Company Code Data and
Sales Area Data.


Note that this region fields define the tax calculation like VAT, CST, etc. The next step is to go to Control Data and enter the following details.

Then you have to enter the particulars in Payment Transaction tab and enter the details of – Bank City, Bank Key, Bank Account and Account Holder Name. You can also add more details by clicking on the Bank data button.

The next step is to go to the Sales Area data and enter the details – Shipping Data, Customer Pricing and Partner Functions, etc.

Next is to click on the Save icon at the top and you will get a confirmation that the customer has been created with #.

If you have to make any further changes to the customer’s master data, you can use T-Code: XD02.

 
 
  



					


