
Billing contains the following components −

Credit and Debit memos for return goods.
Invoice creation for delivery and services.
Cancel Billing transactions.
Pricing Functions.
Discount and Rebates.
Transferring billing data to Financial Accounting FI.

Billing is closely integrated with organization structure and it can be assigned to Sales Organization, a Distribution Channel, and a division.
Key functions in Billing − 

Types of Billing
Match codes
Number Range
Blocking Reasons
Display billing list
Display billing due list

Billing Document Types
A billing document is created for a credit memo, debit memo, an invoice or a cancelled transaction. Each billing document has a header and list of items under it. Billing documents are normally controlled by the billing type.
In a billing document header, it contains general data like −

Date of Billing
Payer identification number
Billing value
Currency
Partner Identification numbers like ship to party, sold to party, etc.
Pricing Elements

In the list of items, you should maintain the following data −

Material Number
Quantity of goods
Volume and weight
Value of Individual items
Pricing element for individual items

While doing the billing processing, you create, change and delete the billing documents like − invoices, credit memos, debit memos, etc.
Billing Processing also includes creation of billing documents as per the below reference −

To a sales order
To a delivery
To external transactions

You can refer to an entire document, individual items or partial quantities of items.
A Billing document can be created in the following ways −

When a system processes a billing due list automatically as a background task.
By manually processing from a worklist.
You can also create a billing document explicitly

Creation of Billing Documents
Use T-Code: VF01
Go to Logistics → Sales and Distribution → Billing → Billing Document → Create.

A new window will open, then you can enter the Billing Type, Date and enter the document number you want to create. Click save.


VF02 − To change the Billing Document
VF03 − Display Billing Document
VF11 − Cancel a Billing Document
VF05 − List Billing Document


 
 
  



					


